Ulcerative colitis is a type of inflammatory bowel disease.
Ulcerative colitis causes inflammation and sores
in just the lining of the large intestine and rectum.
The inflammation is usually uniform and continuous.
Symptoms of ulcerative colitis include
diarrhea, often with blood or mucus,
rectal bleeding, abdominal cramps and pain,
fatigue, and stool urgency.
Most people with ulcerative colitis have mild to moderate symptoms
and some have periods of remission.
Ulcerative colitis can be debilitating
and sometimes may lead to life-threatening complications.
There is no cure for ulcerative colitis,
but treatment can reduce its signs and symptoms
and offer long-term remission.